My name is Brad Ford.
I'm a media engineer on the
iPhone engineering team.
Let's dive right in.
Here's what you'll learn today.
Why and when you should use
AV Foundation capture APIs,
as opposed to some of the other
options we have on the platform.
The AV Foundation capture
programming model.
And throughout this presentation,
I'll be peppering the demos and
the talk with performance hints,
gotchas, things that you should be
aware of when using the camera.
We have four demos that we're
going to show you today.
All of these apps are
available right now.
If you were a crazy person,
you could log into the website,
you could download the apps,
you could compile them,
and put them on your phone,
and you could follow along with me,
but only if you're crazy.
Again, for those who've been here
with us this afternoon,
you've seen this,
this is the third time now.
But here's where we sit in
the technology hierarchy.
Our framework that we're talking
about today is AV Foundation.
It sits below the thin blue line.
That is, it does not link against or
have dependencies on UIKit.
It purposely sits lower in the
framework so that it is lean and mean.
Most of the heavy lifting done by
AV Foundation is actually accomplished
by lower-level core frameworks,
core audio, core animation,
and core media.
Chief among these is core media.
Core media is a new public
C interface framework in iOS 4.
It's core foundation-based,
which means the objects have the
same semantics you're used to,
CF retain and CF release.
Core media is where the power
of AV Foundation derives from.
Let's step back and talk
about shipping software,
iPhone OS 3.
There we have a simple
programmatic access,
and let's see by show of hands
who has an app in the app
store that uses the camera.
Wow, quite a few of you.
All of you are using UI Image Picker
Controller in some way.
That's because there
were no other options.
UI Image Picker Controller is how
we do simple things for recording,
like choose high, medium,
or low quality for recording.
We give you that little
hideable camera controls UI,
the same that you see in the camera app.
That lets you do things like toggle the
photo movie button showing or hidden,
and it lets you take photos.
There's actually an API for that.
But you do have to use the control
overlay for doing things like
starting or stopping recording.
We can't do that programmatically.
And if you want to do touch to focus,
that's just up to the
users using that UI view.
The good news is, in iOS 4,
UI Image Picker Controller has
gotten a substantial upgrade.
We offer more control there.
There's now API for starting
and stopping movie recording,
so you don't have to use our stock UI.
You also get the same high resolution
still image capture as you would expect.
But new in iPhone 4 are
additional camera capabilities,
like access to the flash.
You also get switching between
front and back cameras.
All of this is available
at the high level UI kit,
UI Image Picker Controller API level.
But for those of you
power junkies out there,
you might want to use AV Foundation for
capture because it lets you go deeper.
Full access to the camera.
Steve promised it,
and we think we've delivered it.
What do we mean when we say
full access to the camera?
We mean independent focus, exposure,
and white balance controls.
Independent locking.
Independent points of interest
for focus and exposure.
Let's say you're developing
an HDR application.
You can set focus to a
given point on your video,
and then keep that composed and locked
while you set different exposure
values and take multiple pictures
and then stitch them together.
We also give you probably the number
one most requested feature in iPhone
OS 3 with regards to the camera,
which was access to video frame
data in your process per frame data.
But we don't just give you the data,
we actually also give
you accurate timestamps,
so you know exactly when those
frames came in and hit the sensor.
We give you per frame metadata,
so you know interesting
things about those frames,
like the f-stop and the exposure level.
We give you configurable output formats,
for instance, 4:2:0V,
a bi-planar YUV format, or BGRA,
if you're going to be doing some
rendering using Core Graphics or OpenGL.
We also let you configure
the max frame rate.
Maybe 30 frames per second is too much,
or more than your application needs,
and 15 frames per second is just fine,
thank you.
We let you throttle the
frame rate if you need to.
We also let you configure the resolution,
so you can get a full
720p if you need that,
but if your processing
algorithm needs less,
you can get more CPU back for
your interesting processing that
you're going to do by asking
for it at a lower resolution,
for instance, 480 by 360.
We also give you flexible output.
These are new features that you won't
find at the higher level in our UI stack.
For still image output,
we give you not just JPEG,
but in addition to that,
you get YUV and RGB output.
Think of that:
access to the full 5 megapixel
images from the camera,
but uncompressed.
So you can do a lot of processing with
those and do great things with them.
We're interested to see
what you'll come up with.
You also get EXIF metadata insertion,
so you can insert your own custom tags.
As you would expect, we do recording.
We record QuickTime movies.
We allow you to insert your
own movie-level metadata.
And we also let you control
the presentation of the movie.
For instance, doing an orientation lock.
What if you had an app, for instance,
that's only a landscape app?
You don't want to allow them
to turn it portrait because
you don't want portrait movies.
We allow you to lock the
orientation of the recorded
movie so they are all landscape,
for instance.
We also give you access to video preview,
not in a UI view,
but in a core animation layer.
That means it's performant
like core animation.
It lets you insert this layer
into a rendering tree like any
other core animation layer.
And we give you some
interesting features there,
one of which is video gravity,
and we'll talk more about that later.
But that lets you control how
the video stretches or fits or
fills that video preview layer.
We also give you audio level metering
and access to audio sample data as well.
This is the only Objective-C API in
our stack that gives you access
to audio samples in your process.
All right,
let's start with capture basics.
What might you want to
do if you have an iPhone?
I'm going to go out on a limb and venture
that most of you have an iPhone here.
So let's say you have an iPhone.
It has a camera on the back.
What kinds of things might
you want to do with it?
Well, you might want to preview what
you're seeing from the camera
to a core animation layer.
You might want to take
high quality still images.
You might want to get
individual video frames into
your process and process them.
you might want to record
to a QuickTime movie.
Now that camera is not
the only input you have.
There's of course one high
quality back facing camera,
and in a couple weeks I'm sure you'll
all have newer phones that have
two high quality cameras on them.
There's also a built-in microphone,
and the microphone is another input
that we can use for doing capture.
You can get those audio samples
directly into your process
for additional processing,
or you can write those audio
samples to a QuickTime movie.
All of these capture scenarios
are provided for in our
API using a hierarchy of classes.
Let's look at what this
looks like to AV Capture.
The center of the AV Capture universe
is the AV Capture Session object.
The session is your central hub.
It's where you,
it controls the flow of data.
It's where you add inputs and outputs.
Each of those sources that
I talked about is represented in
the API as an AV capture input.
Each of those outputs I talked
about are AV capture outputs.
The preview layer is a little
bit different because it is a
subclass of core animation layer,
CA layer.
It behaves a little bit
differently and plugs into the
session a little bit differently,
so it's a special case.
We'll take care of it separately.
But this is what, from the high level,
AV capture looks like.
The rest of the talk is going to be
devoted to four common usage cases.
The first one, processing YUV video
frames from the camera,
controlling the camera, taking photos,
recording movies,
previewing video from the camera
to a core animation layer,
and finally,
processing PCM audio data from
the microphone to draw waveform.
Let's tackle that first one first,
since that was the most requested feature
in iPhone OS 3 with regards to camera.
Let's do a demo.
This one's called Find My Icone.
I'd like to invite up Matthew Calhoun,
who's going to help me with this demo.
You see before me a cone, a traffic cone.
You're probably asking yourself the
same question I've been asking myself.
You know, how many times have I found my
cone missing and wished that I had
an application to find my Icone?
Well, now we've provided it in this talk.
As you can see, he's running a preview,
and he found the cone.
He sampled the cone's colors,
and he's looking for a range of pixels
that are close to that color orange.
And when he finds it,
when he finds a threshold of 10,
he draws a rectangle around it.
So he's finding the cone.
He's drawing that little
rectangle around it.
You see it move with the cone.
And when I hide the cone-- oops,
it went away.
Bring the cone back.
Oh, there it is again.
This isn't just a cutesy little demo app.
This has a real world application.
I mean, think if you were in a bar,
and your cone happened to
fall out of your pocket.
You would really want an
app to find your icon.
So find my icon.
How do we do that?
We started with the camera.
And it's outputting video frames to
the client process to the application.
It's also using a video preview layer.
And we saw that running
at full resolution,
1280 by 720.
And it was very smooth.
Wasn't dropping any frames at all.
But he's doing processing
on the background.
When he finds that
pattern and matches to it,
he superimposes the rectangle on
top of his core animation layer.
And we see where the icon is.
What does this look like to
AV Foundation's capture objects?
Well, again,
you have a session in the middle.
You have a concrete subclass of
AV capture input on the source side.
And that is an AV capture device input.
Each device on the system is
represented as an AV capture device.
On an iPhone 3GS, there are two devices,
one for the camera,
one for the built-in microphone.
On an iPhone 4,
there will be three devices,
one for the back-facing camera,
one for the front-facing camera,
one for the built-in mic.
He also used a concrete subclass
of AV Capture output called
AV Capture Video Data Output.
This will be your friend if you
want to do video processing.
From this video data output,
he gets delegate callbacks,
each providing a sample
buffer with a video frame.
He also used an AV Capture video preview
layer to draw the video to the screen and
superimpose his rectangle on top of it.
Let's look at the code for this.
It's actually very simple.
The setup for this is about 30 lines.
Find My Icon is available as sample code,
and also this snippet that I'm about
to show you is available and attached
to this session as code snippet SP16.
You can follow along.
So what do we do first?
We make a capture session.
We set the preset on the
session to whatever desired
quality of service we want.
For this one, I set it to high.
High because we wanted
the full resolution,
we wanted a nice-looking preview,
and the processing was quick enough
that we could tolerate a high level.
Next, you need to find a
suitable AV capture device.
In this case, we just chose the default,
which is the back-facing camera.
So we used default device with media type
and asked for the video AV media type.
Once we've got that,
we create and add an AV capture device
input and add it to our session.
You've just configured
half of your graph.
So now, how do we do the output side?
Well, first we make an AV Capture
Video Data Output instance,
add it to the session.
We configure our output,
and then start the session.
So how you do this is if you
don't have a delegate callback,
you're not going to get any video frames.
You have to tell your video data output
the callback to deliver the frames to.
Now, this is not a traditional
delegate callback like most
Objective-C objects have.
It's a fancy delegate.
So when you associate a delegate
with your video data output,
you call set sample
buffer delegate queue.
Now, this queue,
you may or may not be familiar with.
This is a recent development
and certainly a new development.
On iOS 4, which is the use of
Grand Central Dispatch,
or GCD.
You can associate a
GCD queue with your delegate.
That means that you have
control over the priority,
the thread of when
these callbacks happen.
We give this control to you because
we want you to be able to manage
the performance of video frames.
Video is hard,
and it really taxes the system.
And this is about the hardest
thing you can do on the phone.
It lights up the just about
every block we've got.
So we want to give you all
the tools we can to help you
mitigate performance problems.
And this is one of them.
Being able to specify a queue,
you have some control over
the relative priority.
Next,
you implement your delegate callback,
which is simple.
It calls you with did
output sample buffer,
and then you can start
and do your processing.
Now, that might bring up a question.
What is a CM sample buffer?
I saw that object there,
but I've never heard
of one of those before.
Well, it's defined in the new
core media framework.
It is a CF object,
so it has retain and release semantics.
First and foremost,
it contains the sample data.
And it does that by wrapping
it in a CV image buffer,
or in our case,
it's a concrete type of CV image
buffer called a CV pixel buffer ref.
If you've ever worked with
Core Video on the Mac,
you know what I'm talking about.
When you have a CV pixel buffer ref,
you can get at the base address,
the row bytes, you can start iterating
through the pixels and do
whatever it is you need to do.
It also contains timing information,
accurate timestamps from exactly when
that frame showed up on the sensor.
You can get the presentation
time as a CM time.
Eric told you all about
that in the last session.
You can get format information.
Format information is housed in the
CM sample buffer as another CF object
called a CM format description.
Once you have that,
you can find out things about
the format like its pixel type,
its clean aperture, its dimensions,
things that you might
want to know about it.
And lastly, metadata about the samples.
You get these as attachments.
They're carried along with the sample
buffer as a dictionary of attachments.
In this case right here,
I'm asking for the metadata
dictionary attachment.
If it has it,
we can look through that dictionary and
find all kinds of interesting metadata.
Focus scores and exposure levels
and whether the flash was firing.
Interesting stuff.
All of this is in code snippet SP20,
and please refer to the CoreMedia
framework documentation for
more information on how to
work with CM sample buffers.
Performance considerations.
Can we just pause for a second
to reflect on how cool this is?
You're getting 1280, okay, go ahead.
We're getting 1280 by 720,
30 frames per second video delivered
to your process on a phone.
You know,
this is things that we were doing on
the desktop not too many years ago.
I liken to it to the following analogy.
Let's say all of you
are high school seniors,
and it's prom night.
This is your senior prom.
And let's pretend that Apple is your dad.
And so you're all dolled
up and ready to go,
and you think you're going
to take the family car,
and then your dad pulls out
the keys to the Porsche and
gives them to you and says,
have fun with it.
I trust you.
But
Please bring the car back on time,
and please don't have a scratch on it,
or else you're grounded and you
never get to use it ever again.
That's the kind of performance
considerations we're talking about
with AV Capture Video Data Output.
You must be timely with
your use of these buffers,
or you might not get any more.
So, as I said before,
you set the sample buffer
delegate and queue.
The queue that you set on
us must be a serial queue.
That ensures properly
ordered buffer callbacks.
If you use one of the
global concurrent queues,
order is not guaranteed.
So how hilarious would it
be if you started getting
video frames out of order?
So don't pass dispatch
get current queue either.
You can't guarantee what thread it's on.
By default,
the buffers you get from the video
data output are emitted in the
camera's most efficient format.
That is, the format that's easiest
for it to produce,
which may or may not be the best
format for your application.
If you find that by default
it's not giving you the best
format for your application,
you can specify a custom output format
using the video settings property.
Set the video settings, for instance,
if you want to output BGRA.
And as I hinted before,
both Core Graphics and
OpenGL work well with BGRA.
It's not the default emitted format,
but if you plan to process
pixels and then render them,
this might be a good choice.
Additional performance considerations.
You can set the min frame duration
property on the AV capture video data
output to cap the max frame rate.
That might sound a little backwards.
Min frame duration is the
reciprocal of the max frame rate.
So if you set it to 1 over 15,
that's going to give you a max
frame rate of 15 frames per second.
You can also configure the session to
output the lowest practical resolution
for your processing algorithm.
You'll want to do that to save
CPU cycles if you're doing
some complicated processing.
There's also this long property name
called Always Discards Late Video Frames,
and the default is yes.
By default,
we want to drop video frames early
and efficiently if you fall behind.
So if you accept the default,
you're giving us leeway to drop
frames early before messaging them
over to your process and perhaps
causing you to get even later.
Now, you can set it to no.
That doesn't guarantee that we're
not going to drop video frames.
It just means we're not going to
drop them as early and efficiently
as we might have if you said yes.
Now, why might you want to set it to no?
You might set it to no
if you're recording,
and it doesn't matter if the video
frames are a little bit late.
You want all of them that you can get.
So, again,
let me impress upon you that your sample
buffer delegate callbacks must be fast.
Do as little processing
as you can get away with,
and return that buffer.
Because if you hold onto
the buffers too long,
the camera is going to
stop producing buffers,
your preview will stop,
your processing algorithm will
probably get really confused,
hilarity will ensue.
Also, this was the first time
we saw AV Capture Session,
which again is the central hub of the
AV Foundation Capture API universe.
It's the place for adding
inputs and outputs,
and the flow of data does not start
until you call Start Running on it.
Lastly, we talked about that
session preset property.
We have six supported
session presets in iOS 4:
high, medium, low, some named ones,
and photo.
Let's talk about these.
High means the highest quality
video and audio recording resolution
and quality that we can give you.
It changes from product to product.
High on a 3GS is not the
same as high on an iPhone 4.
But it means that if you use high,
you'll always scale to the very
best that the given product can do.
Medium we define as
suitable for Wi-Fi sharing.
Low we define as suitable for 3GS.
And low we define as
suitable for 4G sharing.
But we don't make guarantees about what
those resolutions are and bit rates are,
just that they'll fall
within those parameters.
If you need to have something
that is VGA and stays VGA for
all time and eternity,
you can use one of these named presets,
like the 640x480 preset.
We guarantee that that will not
change from product to product.
And lastly,
there's that photo preset at the bottom,
which is a special case for getting
absolutely the highest resolution,
the full 5 megapixel on an iPhone 4,
or the full 5 megapixel on an iPhone 5.
a three megapixel on an iPhone 3GS.
Here's a list,
a grid of all the supported
resolutions and formats.
I don't expect you to
memorize this right now,
but you can see in
AV Capture Video Data Output,
you can get the full 1280 by 720 if,
for instance, you're on the iPhone
4's back-facing camera.
I did want to call out at the bottom
that photo resolution is not supported
for video data output on any platform.
The buffers are just too big.
All right,
we've covered the first capture scenario.
Let's move on to the second,
which is controlling the camera,
taking photos, recording movies.
And let's start that with a
demo and bring up Sean Ojakian.
All right, he's running an application
called AVCam Demo,
which is also available and
associated with this session.
Notice that it has the same or very
similar features to our camera app,
but a completely different UI.
There are buttons on the bottom.
There's a HUD button
that we'll come back to.
The second one says swap.
And when Eric pushes swap,
it switches to the front-facing camera,
and now he can smile at you and
you can see his beautiful face.
Now, if he pushes the record button,
he's recording to a movie.
We'll do a quick recording
and there you go.
Once he stops the recording,
it records the movie to his
sandboxed process space,
and he writes it over to the camera roll
using the new AL asset library class.
The third one says high
quality still images.
Let's go ahead and take a
still image right there.
He flashed the screen for us so that
we could see it taking the picture.
And now let's go back to the
back-facing camera and display
what's in the HUD controls.
Here's where things get
interesting and new.
Okay, notice he's got in there flash off,
torch, auto focus, auto exposure,
auto white balance.
So let's go ahead and turn the
flash on and then take another
picture and... Point it at the
audience so they can be blinded.
Great.
And then let's turn on the torch.
Torch is kind of like flash,
except that it's at a
lower intensity beam,
and while you take a recording,
you can see it humming along there,
illuminating your recording and making
it brighter in low-light conditions.
Okay, and then next, we've got autofocus,
which is currently locked.
He has it wired up so that
when he does a single tap,
it does an autofocus and then locks
at that current focus position.
Okay,
let's back up now and have something
bright on one side and dark in the back.
If he double taps,
it will expose on the point
at which he double taps.
So let's double tap on the screen.
Okay, it just got, you know,
it adjusted for the
brightness of the screen,
and now let's double tap
over on the dark side.
And you see the auto exposure
just kind of blew out.
Now, while he was doing that,
he didn't change the focus.
The focus remained locked.
So we're setting separate exposure
windows and focus windows.
This is a first on our platform.
And also notice that while he's
doing something like a focus,
look at those cool little
traffic lights there.
They light up when things happen.
So even if he's in a
continuous auto focus mode,
it will light up when
the focus event happens.
Thanks, Sean.
Let's go back to slides.
What did we just see there?
We saw two inputs,
a preview to a core animation layer,
output to a still image,
and movie recording.
And again, to AV Capture,
it looks like this.
You have a session in the middle.
You have two AV Capture device inputs,
a new subclass of AV Capture output
called AV Capture Still Image Output,
and another new one called
AV Capture Movie File Output.
Video preview layer is our old friend.
Moving on,
let's talk about focus support.
There are three supported focus modes.
Locked.
Locked means what you would expect.
It parks the sensor at
its current position,
and it doesn't do any focus.
So you can compose a scene,
frame it how you like,
do a focus operation, lock,
so that it will stay there.
Focus mode autofocus does a single
scan focus and then reverts to locked.
So this is something that might
be suitable for a touch-to-focus
interface where you want to do
one focus and then keep it there.
Lastly,
there's continuous autofocus mode.
That continuously autofocuses
as needed in the background.
It's constantly monitoring
the scene for fuzziness.
When it gets blurry enough that
it thinks it needs to focus again,
it'll do that.
You can use the isFocusModeSupported
property to determine if your given
AV capture device supports it.
Not all devices support focus.
For instance,
an iPhone 3G is a fixed focus camera.
Also, you can observe the adjusting focus
property using key value coding,
key value observation,
to know when it changes.
That's what he was driving
his red blinky lights using.
[Transcript missing]
Setting the focus mode or focus point
of interest requires calling lock for
configuration on the AV capture device.
Think of AV capture device
as a shareable object.
These are things that you would set on
the AV capture device that might mess
up another application that's using the
same shared resource at the same time.
So before messing with their state,
we want to make sure that you have
mutually exclusive access to that device.
So here's some code that you might use.
You would see if that focus mode is
supported if you wanted to lock it.
If you see that it is supported,
you would call lock for configuration,
then go ahead and lock it,
lock the focus mode, and then unlock the
device for configuration.
And please do avoid holding the
lock for configuration for too long.
Again, think of it as a shared resource.
You might degrade other
applications' user experience
if you hold it indefinitely.
Exposure modes follow the
same basic rules that focus.
modes do.
There's locked and continuous.
We have the same isSupported
and adjustingExposure key
value observable property.
And again,
you must call lock for configuration
before you set the exposure
mode or point of interest.
Also with white balance,
the same two supported modes,
continuous and locked.
You can ask if it's supported.
You can observe when it changes.
And you must call lock for
configuration before setting it.
Now let's talk about
Flash support on the camera.
Flash modes, we have three of them.
We have flash mode off.
When flash mode is off,
the flash will not fire,
even if it's the middle of the night
and you're out in the middle of nowhere.
AV capture flash mode on always fires
the flash when you take a picture,
even if it's the middle of the
day and it's bright outside.
AV capture flash mode auto will
only fire the flash if ambient light
conditions determine that it's low
enough that we should fire the flash.
Again, you have those has flash type
properties to know whether
you can use that facility,
and you can call lock for
configuration to set it.
Torch support.
Torch is actually the same LED used for
illumination that the flash or strobe is,
but it fires at a much lower
intensity that's sustainable
for a longer period of time.
When you use the torch,
that's what you would
use for video recording.
Off, on,
and auto follow the same semantics
that I just talked about for flash.
Off means always off, on means always on,
and auto will only turn on if ambient
light requires it during a recording.
You can ask if it has a torch,
and you must lock for configuration.
Please also note that the torch
only turns on if the device
is associated with a session,
and that session is running.
It's meant for video recording.
Here is a grid of all of our AV capture
device properties and the various
products and what's supported.
So if you want the Uber list,
you've got to go get an iPhone
4 and use the back camera.
Let's talk about camera switching.
There are some performance
considerations here.
When you use AVCaptureSession,
you can tell it,
since it's the control object,
you can tell it to start or stop running.
But these are synchronous calls,
meaning when you call "start running,"
it's not going to return until
everything is actually running and going.
This can take a little bit of time,
same with "stop running." So it
would be wasteful and it would
be a bad user experience if,
for instance,
you wanted to switch from front
to back camera and you had
to stop the session running,
wait for it to stop running,
then set to a new camera,
then start it running again.
It would glitch and stutter.
So instead, AVCaptureSession is meant to
be reconfigured while running.
You can use begin configuration
and commit configuration,
which are very similar to
CoreAnimation's CA transaction,
begin and commit.
This is all in code snippet SP21,
but the abbreviated version is you call
begin configuration on the session,
and then you do stuff to the session.
Add inputs, remove outputs,
swap front and back camera.
In this case, we're removing the
front-facing camera input,
adding the back-facing camera input.
But no work is done until we
call commit configuration when
it's committed all in one call,
and it's very smooth
and as fast as can be.
So please do use begin and
commit configuration when you're
reconfiguring your session.
Now let's move on to movie recording
and the AV capture movie file output,
and some performance considerations.
When you initiate a
QuickTime movie recording,
you supply a file URL and a delegate.
It's very simple.
It looks like that.
You have a URL.
You supply a delegate.
There are a couple optional
delegate callbacks,
but one is mandatory, and that is,
did finish recording
to output file at URL.
We require that you be informed when
your recording finishes so that you're
not just recording into the ether.
In your did finish recording
to output file at URL callback,
you might do things like
write it to the camera roll,
as AVCam demo does.
And if you look at code snippet SP24,
you'll see how to do that.
Here is AV Capture
Movie File Output's writing policy.
You must pass a file-based NSURL.
You can't pass an HTTP URL or
anything other than a file-based one.
You may not pass a
URL to an existing file.
The Movie File Output does not
overwrite existing resources.
Also, you must have permission to
write to the URL specified.
We won't write to privileged
locations on your behalf.
Setting limits.
You might want to do things like set
a max recorded duration or file size,
or ensure that your recordings
don't fill up the disk so that users
can no longer boot their phone.
You can use these properties
to set these recording limits.
And when you do that,
be prepared that you might spontaneously
get a did finish recording callback
when you didn't ask for it.
So for instance,
if you set a max recorded
duration property to say,
I want it to record for just 10 seconds,
then after 10 seconds,
your callback will fire telling
you that the recording did finish.
And it will have an
NSError associated with it.
That error will tell you
the reason that it finished.
But that does not mean that
your file is not usable.
So please get in the habit of
checking both the error and its
user info dictionary to find out
if the recording was successful.
And you can also find out
from that why it stopped.
Here are some early recording
termination conditions.
I wanted to call these out.
AV error disk full.
Pretty understandable.
If you filled up your disk,
it had to stop.
If a device gets disconnected,
when might that happen?
Well, if you're on an iPod touch,
and it doesn't have a
built-in microphone,
but it has headphones,
and someone pulls out the headphones so
the headphone mic suddenly disappears,
your recording will stop.
Maximum duration reached,
maximum file size reached,
and session was interrupted.
And what's a session interruption?
That's when, for instance,
a phone call comes in.
Phone calls need to rip
hardware away from you that's
being used for your recording,
so the phone call wins.
It's more important than your recording.
So your recording will stop right now,
and you'll be told that
you were interrupted.
Again, look at SP24,
code snippet 24 for the full list.
Metadata, let's move on to metadata,
which is also a very interesting
feature of our movie file output.
You can set movie-level metadata
at any time while recording.
That's different from other properties,
and there's a good reason for it.
It allows for slow metadata.
Not all metadata is available at
the time you start your recording.
Let's take GPS location, for instance.
If someone starts up your app
and pushes record immediately,
you may not have had time
to get a GPS location fix.
But you really wanted to
put that in your movie.
So at any time while it's recording,
you can update the metadata
array with metadata up until
the point where you stop.
And we will update the movie file with
whatever metadata you come up with.
So you can wait to know what
the right metadata is until
your recording has started.
Here's a code snippet that shows
how you might set the location.
So this is the location metadata.
These are expressed as AV mutable
metadata items in an array.
This one has a key space of common.
The key is location.
And it uses an ISO 6709 compliant string
to express latitude and longitude.
This is all in the code,
and you can see it in the code snippet.
Code snippet 25.
Here are supported resolutions
and bit rates on various products.
You can get video in any
format as long as it's H.264,
and audio in any format you
want as long as it's AAC,
except on iPhone 3G,
where there is no video
supported for movie file output
because of hardware constraints.
As you can see,
the iPhone 4 back camera at its highest
Supports 1280 by 720 at 10.5 megabits.
And I also wanted to call out that
the photo preset is not supported
for writing to movie files.
That's just too big of buffers.
And then let's talk about
photos for a minute.
The still image output is a block style
completion handler that delivers image
data to you as a CM sample buffer.
Well, you guys know about
CM sample buffers now.
We just talked about them when we
talked about video data output.
That sample buffer
contains useful metadata.
In addition to the ones you would
normally find in your video data output,
you'll find EXIF, an EXIF dictionary.
So for instance, when you want to take a
high quality still image,
you would call capture still image
asynchronously from connection
and provide a completion handler,
which is a block.
That block will be invoked when
the picture is ready and the data
has been messaged to your process.
Here I show what I might do
to get at the EXIF dictionary.
So I call CM get attachment,
and then I can inspect the
EXIF dictionary associated
with that sample buffer
containing still image data.
We support a number of output formats,
as I said earlier.
You can call available image data
CV pixel format types and available
image data codec types to find out
which are supported on your device.
And you can also set your preferred
pixel format or data codec format
using the output settings property.
If your final destination
still image format is JPEG,
we highly recommend letting
AV Capture Still Image Output
do the compression for you.
You say, "Well, why?
Maybe I want to insert my own metadata,
so I want to let Image I/O do the
compression afterwards." Well,
if you use AV Capture Still Image Output,
we will use hardware
to do the JPEG encode,
and it will be as fast as it can be.
If you do want to have that very fast,
you can use the JPEG still
image NSData representation,
which will fetch that sample
buffer in JPEG format,
write it to an NSData,
merging in whatever additional custom
metadata you have without recompressing.
So again,
that's a performance hint if you want
to get really fast JPEG encoded still
images and insert your own metadata.
Here are our supported
resolutions and formats.
As you can see, most--well,
all platforms support BGRA and JPEG.
That's kind of small.
I don't know if you can see that.
And all have their various resolutions.
You can see that photo was a
full 5-megapixel photo preset.
Let's move on to our
third capture use case,
which is previewing video from a
camera to a core animation layer.
And I'm going to do a demo for
that called Pinchy Preview.
Okay, Pinchy Preview is a
very simple application.
It's about 200 lines long,
and it's mostly UI gesture recognizers,
and it's about 30 lines
of AV capture code.
This garish red rectangle you see is
an AV capture video preview layer,
but it's not showing any video, you say.
That's because I haven't
pushed the start button yet.
When I push the start button,
I start seeing video.
It is a core animation layer.
It inherits from CA layer,
so it behaves as you might expect
any other CA layer to behave.
I have it hooked up to a number
of UI gesture recognizer,
UI gestures.
So, for instance, when I touch,
I can move the layer around.
If I pinch,
I can make myself really small.
This is a fun app to
play with late at night.
And you can also twist with your
fingers to rotate yourself around.
And if you get tired of everything
you've been doing with this,
you can shake,
and it goes back to its default location.
Again, this is about 200 lines of code.
Now, what's that equally garish orange
pointer you see at the top?
The pointer is showing you where the
UI orientation is oriented towards.
So this shows that we're a portrait app,
and when called to auto-rotate,
we're saying no,
except for portrait mode.
So if I turn my phone sideways,
I'm turning the phone sideways,
you're not seeing it turn,
but I'm turning it upside down,
you can see that my UI is still,
you know, pointed down.
So no matter what happens,
I'm turned right side up
with respect to my UI.
Now, most applications will just set
this once and forget about it,
like Camera app.
They'll set their orientation,
and then they'll keep that one
orientation for the life of the app.
But if you have a very
complicated application where
you need to set up a camera app,
you can set it up in the camera app.
But if you have a very complicated
application where you need to
auto-rotate to different orientations,
I'm going to push this button
to stop locking UI view.
If you forget to tell the preview
layer the orientation of your UI,
this is what will happen.
So when I rotate, okay, my UI rotated,
but my video didn't, so now I'm sideways.
And if I go this way, oh no,
my video's upside down.
But you can correct for that
by using the video preview
layer's orientation property,
and when I push this button
to turn the lock off,
it's now going to follow my
UI orientation as it turns.
So as I turn,
my video preview turns with it.
And up is always up,
and down is always down.
All it's got is one
input and zero outputs.
There are no outputs at all,
just one preview layer.
You have a session in the middle.
You have a device input for the camera.
You have a preview layer
for what we saw on screen.
Considerations when using these.
Unlike the AV Capture output,
it retains and owns its session.
That might seem a little bit backwards.
As I said, the session was the
center of our universe.
But still,
it's idiomatic for core animation
programming to sometimes make
your core animation layer,
do your configuration on it,
and then throw it into your
render tree and forget about it.
So that when it comes time
to dispose of that layer,
it takes care of all the cleanup.
And that's why we carry
that idiom over here.
So the video preview layer retains
and owns its capture session.
It behaves like any other CA layer,
as you saw.
We could perform transforms on it.
We could rotate it, scale it.
You can set the orientation
property to ensure that it rotates
the preview layer correctly with
respect to your UI's orientation.
And on iPhone 4,
the preview layer supports mirroring.
We were actually seeing that.
I didn't call it out.
But when you saw pictures of me,
it was showing me as a
mirror image of myself.
This is the default for
the front-facing camera,
because it's easier for people to
orient themselves when they see a mirror
image of themselves in the preview.
But you can turn that off if you
want to see exactly what the image
looks like without mirroring.
We support three video gravity modes:
Aspect, Aspect Fill, and Resize.
Okay, so let's take a look at this
picture of a person playing guitar.
This is resize aspect.
Now, as you notice, on the top and bottom
there are black bars.
That's because this
movie was taken 16 by 9.
It's a 720 movie shown
on a 4 by 3 display.
So, of course, there are black bars
because it doesn't fit,
and we're preserving the aspect ratio.
If you use aspect fill,
we're going to fill
the given viewing size,
but keep the aspect ratio.
So now we've cut out
something on the sides.
Let's go back to the previous
one so you can see what happened.
Look at where the guitarist's hands are.
And when we go back to the other one,
you see they're kind of
chopped off on the sides.
And then finally,
comparison between aspect and resize.
Resize is like Funhaus effects.
It just stretches it or squishes
it to fit your previews.
So you can see that the aspect ratio
is the same as the size of the video.
Now, there's an extra consideration
you should be aware of,
and that is when you're trying to
drive a tap to focus or tap to expose
UI using this video preview layer,
there's some translation
that you have to do.
Why?
Because the focus touch
from a video preview may be,
your video preview may be rotated
differently than the buffer
as it comes in on the sensor.
It also might have a
different video gravity,
you know,
so you may not be seeing the entire
buffer on screen because it's blown up.
Or mirroring may be enabled,
in which case a touch on your video
preview needs to be translated,
you know, flip it over the vertical axis.
The good news is,
if you look at AVCam Demo,
it's got all of that translation code.
So it shouldn't be a mystery how
to perform this translation between
preview and driving your touch to focus.
or touch to expose.
Let's move on to the very last,
and that's processing PCM audio data
from the microphone to draw waveform.
We'll have Matthew come back
up and help me with this demo.
Okay, this is probably the
simplest app of the day.
It has a neat-looking
You can see the little gradient there,
sort of Darth Vader-ish,
and nothing happening until
you push the Start button.
But when you do,
it starts drawing an audio waveform.
So if, Matthew, you blow in or whistle
into the microphone,
You see it get really big.
That's kind of a neat feature.
But what's even neater
is if you menu out,
You see that it's drawing that
double height pulsing red bar,
indicating that Wavy is still running
the audio device in the background.
It's still getting processing time.
It's still processing
those audio samples.
So if you're, I don't know,
doing some strange reverb effect,
you'd still be getting your callbacks.
And now if you touch that and go back,
You see that he was indeed
still getting called back,
and when he did his whistle
while it was in the background,
it was doing the drawing as well.
Now, how did we do that?
We had a single input,
this time no camera involved,
just the built-in microphone,
and going to a single output.
This looks like a capture
session in the middle,
a device input on top,
and an audio data output on the bottom,
which is another concrete
subclass of AV capture output,
which delivers CM sample
buffers of audio samples.
Performance considerations.
Just like when you use
the video data output,
you provide a delegate callback
along with a GCD queue,
so you have some control over when and
how these samples are delivered to you.
And again, do use a serial dispatch queue
to ensure proper ordering.
I mean, if you think video frames coming
in out of order are funny,
audio samples coming in out
of order are even funnier.
The emitted sample buffers for
an audio data output are always,
always, always interleaved 16-bit
signed integer PCM.
They might be mono or stereo,
depending on the kind of 30-pin
adapter you have on there.
For instance, some 30-pin accessories
support stereo recording.
If you have one of these,
you will get stereo
audio in your callbacks.
By default,
you get 44.1 kilohertz sample rate.
But again, depending on the kind of
accessory that you use,
you might have a different
source sample rate,
and we will deliver you the
sample rate of the source device.
Very important.
Unlike video capture, video data output,
there is no affordance
for dropping samples.
You can't set it to a
lower max frame rate.
You can't do that with audio.
It's just the samples or a glitch.
So it's even more important here that
you be fast in your delegate callback.
Otherwise, you might drop audio samples,
and your user experience
will be degraded.
The CM Sample Buffer usage is almost
the same for audio as it was for video,
with one exception.
It contains no image buffer.
There's no CV pixel buffer
backing this CM Sample Buffer.
Instead, it contains an object
called a CM Block Buffer.
You can think of a CM Block Buffer
as a very fancy CFData.
It supports things like non-contiguous
ranges of data within the buffer.
But for audio,
it will be just like a fancy CFData.
You can use CM Block Buffer APIs to
address into the--to get a base
pointer for the audio samples.
And when you do that,
you call CM Block Buffer,
get data pointer.
You now have your data pointer
to the base address of the
samples in the PCM buffer.
Multitasking considerations.
I saved this for last because
the rules are important.
I wanted it to be near
the going away message.
You may record or process
audio in the background.
If you set the appropriate
UI background modes in your plist.
If you've used Xcode,
you'll know what this
little plist looks like.
You can add a key to your plist
called required background modes.
If you add the one that
says app plays audio,
then you will continue to get
callbacks while you're backgrounded.
Just like the app Wavy that
Matthew showed you while
he was in the background,
because his app was a app plays
audio in the background app,
he continued to get callbacks.
Users are alerted to the fact that
there's still stuff going on in
the background by that pulsing,
double-height, red status bar.
That's good.
That tells them that the battery
may be drained while you're
doing stuff in the background.
Background apps may not record or
process video from the cameras.
So we do not allow background
usage of the camera.
When you're backgrounded,
here's what happens.
If you're running the camera,
your session gets told
that it was interrupted,
and then it stops,
and you're told that it stopped.
If you have any movie
recordings in progress,
they are stopped.
When reentering the foreground,
a user has come back to your app or, say,
a phone call ends,
Your session is told that
the interruption ended,
and then it starts back up.
So it's as if it never left,
and there's very little work
that you have to do on your
part to take care of this.
You can key value observe the running
and interrupted properties if you
want to know when you got interrupted
and take some additional action.
The last thing we're going to talk
about today is an advanced topic
called AV Capture Connections.
These have been there all along,
but I kept them obscured from
view because I didn't want
to obstruct the main message,
which is inputs, outputs,
session in the middle.
These are the glue that holds those
sessions and inputs and outputs together.
Here's how you use them.
Let's take the AVCam demo
use case that we saw earlier,
where it was capturing from a
mic and from the built-in camera,
and going to still image output,
movie file output,
and video preview layer.
Now,
you see those little red and blue lines,
red for video and blue for audio.
Those are represented in the API.
They're represented in the
API as AV capture connections.
So each one of those streams
of data going to an output
is an AV capture connection.
Now, notice there's a big X going
to the video preview layer.
That's because it's not an output,
so it doesn't get a connection.
The purpose of the AV Capture
Connection is to identify a
specific stream of captured media.
It allows you to enable or disable a
stream of media going to an output.
And more importantly,
it allows you to control the data
that's presented to the output,
or monitor the data that's
presented to an output.
For an audio connection,
this is where you can do
your audio level metering.
For a video connection,
this is where you can do things
like locking the video orientation.
If you want to make sure that all of your
still image pictures are always portrait,
not landscape,
you can lock it to portrait.
Or same goes for movie recording.
Now, one thing that's important to
note is that the AV capture video
data output is an exception.
It does not support setting video
orientation or mirrored on its
connection for performance reasons.
AV Capture Connection exposes the
current state of the media stream
while the session is running.
If you refer to code snippet 27,
this shows how you do
audio level metering.
If you have an output,
you can ask the output
for its connections.
Once you've got the connection,
so here I omitted the code where
you found your audio connection,
it has an array of audio channel objects.
One for each source audio channel.
Usually you'll have mono,
so there'll just be one channel.
But if you have a cool
accessory plugged in,
you might have two.
And then for each of those channels,
you can iterate over them and get the
channel's average or peak hold level,
update your levels,
and do a bouncy lights
audio level kind of UI.
Now, this is not, these are not key value
observable properties.
You have to poll for audio levels.
We don't want to assume
that you want audio levels.
And so we don't automatically
update them on your behalf.
As often as you want audio levels,
poll for the new value and you'll get it.
AV capture connections refer to the
specific stream in an output delegate.
We talked about that
throughout the session as we
looked at these connections.
It's always the second to last or
last parameter from connections.
It identifies a single stream
going to that connection.
AV capture session is greedy.
You can't make an AV capture
connection directly.
When you make a session
and you add an input to it,
it's going to greedily try to form
connections to all outputs that
are compatible with that input.
And the same goes for
when you add an output.
So if you add a video input and you've
already got an output that accepts video,
it will greedily go and form
connections on your behalf.
But maybe you don't want that.
Maybe you want a video input,
but just to do preview.
You don't really want to record
video to your QuickTime movie.
So knowing where the connection is,
you can set the property on
the connection to disable it.
And then you'll get no
video into your movie,
just where you wanted it in your preview.
So here we're showing how you can
get at the connections property.
And here's how you might
disable the connection.
Finding the connection with the
media type that you're interested
in-- look at the orange part.
If it is equal to the media type you
want-- it's going to be the same.
you can disable the connection by
setting its enabled property to "no."
In summary, we processed YU video frames.
And how did we do that?
We used the Video Data Output class.
To control the camera,
we used AV Capture device.
Take photos, we used still image output.
Movie file output to record movies.
We used the AV Capture video preview
layer to preview video from the
camera to a core animation layer.
And we processed PCM audio data
using the audio data output.
Please contact Eric Verschen if you have
any more questions about the technology.
And come and see us throughout
the week in our other sessions.
Thank you all for
sticking it out with us,
and have a great rest of your show.